November 22, 2014

I'm switching up the format of the Metta Sacred Calendar a bit. Hope you all continue to enjoy...

Saturday (Saturn day 7/7)

Makahiki, Makali'i (Pleiades month 1/12), Hilo (faint, wispy day 1/30) {Hawai'ian}: Makahiki is a holiday covering four consecutive lunar months Thus it might be thought of as including the equivalent of modern Thanksgiving and Christmas traditions. Many religious ceremonies happened during this period. The people stopped work, made offerings to the chief or aliʻi, and then spent their time practicing sports, feasting, dancing and having a good time. War during those four months was forbidden (kapu). The new year occurs the first beginning of a month when the Pleiades are first visible at sunset.

Liáng Yuè (Good month 10/12), Xiǎoxuě (Minor Snow solar term 20/24), Dīng Yǒu (Yin Fire Chicken stem-branch 34/60), (pentad 58/72) {Chinese}: This pentad in the Chinese calendar is called 'Rainbows are concealed from view', it was believed that rainbows were the results of yin and yang energy mixing; winter, being dominated by yin, would not present rainbows.

Kislev, Chislev (Dream month 9/12) {Hebrew}: the third month of the civil year and the ninth month of the ecclesiastical year on the Hebrew calendar. In a regular (kesidran) year Kislev has 30 days, but because of the Rosh Hashanah postponement rules, in some years it can lose a day to make the year a "short" (chaser) year. Kislev is an autumn month which occurs in November–December on the Gregorian calendar and is sometimes known as the month of dreams. The name of the month may be taken from Akkadian kislimu, which means "inspissated, thickened" due to plentiful rains. But the name may also derive from the Hebrew root K-S-L as in the words "kesel, kisla" (hope, positiveness) or "ksil" (Orion, a constellation that shines especially in this month) - because the expectation and hope for rains.

Karthika Bahula Amavasya (new moon tithi 30/30), Kali Puja {Hindu}: a passionate prayer to the fearsome, ferocious goddess. Kali, also known as Shyama Kali, is the first of the ten incarnations (avatars) of Shakti. Tantrik Puja is also observed at the midnight on this Amavasya (New Moon Night). Kali Puja is performed basically to seek protection against all evils and for happiness, health, wealth and peace. The aim of Kali Puja is to seek the help of Maa Kali in destroying evil, both in the outside world and within us. It is believed that Kali Puja is performed to diminish ego and all negative tendencies that hamper spiritual growth. As per the legend behind the celebration of Kali Puja, long ago the two demons, Shambhu and Nishambhu, bothered the world of Indra, the king of gods. The gods lost all their hopes with numerous and endless battles. The demons became stronger. The gods took shelter in the Himalayas, the abode of Lord Shiva and Parvati. The disturbed gods asked for protection from Maa Durga. Kali took birth from Durga's forehead as Kal Bhoi Nashini. Kali was created to save the heaven and the earth from the rising brutality of the demons. She went on her way to end the war and kill the demons, along with her two escorts Dakini and Jogini. The whole environment was full of chaos. After killing the demons, Kali made a garland of their hands and wore it around her neck. In the massacre, she lost control and started killing everyone who came in her way. The troubled gods asked Shiva for his help. And Shiva made a plan to save the world. Lord Shiva lay down in the path of the rampaging Kali. When the goddess stepped on Shiva, she recovered her senses. The popular image of Maha Kali with her tongue hanging out, in fact portrays the moment when she steps on lord Shiva and repents for it. Since then people are celebrating this momentous day. Pithru devathas puja brings mental stability.

#nov222014 #sacredcalendar #liangyue #xiaoxue #dingyou #rainbow #yin #fire #chick #winter #kali #puja #amavasya #newmoon #kislev #makahiki #pleiades #makalii #hilo
