World Wetlands Day: {earth} (1971) Marks the date of the signing of the Convention on Wetlands, called Ramsar Convention, in the Iranian city of Ramsar on the shores of the Caspian Sea. 

Yemaja Day: {Yoruba} Her name means Mother whose children are like fish. Goddess of women, pregnant women, and mothers. Goddess of the Ogun River. 

Candlemas, Candelaria, Purification Day: {Christian} celebrates three occasions according to Christian belief: the presentation of the child Jesus; Jesus’ first entry into the temple; and it celebrates the Virgin Mary’s purification (mainly in Catholic churches). Many Christians consider Jesus as the “light of the world” so it is fitting that candles are blessed on this day and that a candle-lit procession precedes the mass. It is traditional to eat crepes on Candlemas in some parts of Europe, such as France. Each family member prepares and cooks a crepe while holding a coin in hand. This is believed to assure wealth and happiness until the next Candlemas celebration. 

World Day for Consecrated Life: {Christian} Consecrated life constitutes a closer imitation and an abiding re-enactment in the Church' of the way of life which Jesus, the supreme Consecrated One and missionary of the Father for the sake of his Kingdom, embraced and proposed to his disciples. It is thus a special and living memory of his being Son, who makes of his Father his only love -- his virginity; who finds in him his exclusive richness -- his poverty; and who has, in the will of his Father, the "food" by which he is nourished -- his obedience. 

Groundhog Day: {US} The day on which the behavior of a groundhog emerging from its burrow is said to predict the onset of Spring. 

Disting: Festival of the Idises, when the effects of Winter are beginning to lessen and the world prepares itself for Spring. Corresponds to the pagan holiday of Imbolc.  Disting is characterized by preparing the land for planting.  In ancient times, Disting was the time when the cattle were counted and one's wealth was tallied; thus making it a festival of finance as well.  It was said that new calves born during Disting were a sign of great prosperity for the coming year. 

Barri: {Asatru} This is the day we celebrate the wooing by Ingvi Freyr of the maiden Gerd, a symbolic marriage of the Vanir God of Fertility with the Mother Earth. It is a festival of fertility, the planted seed and the plowed furrow. For those of you who garden, this is the time to plant seeds indoors, to later be transplanted in the summer garden. 'Purification Day'

Crepe Day: {foodie}

Heavenly Hash Day: {foodie}
