Walpurgis Night, May Eve: often celebrated with dancing and with bonfires. It is exactly six months from All Hallows' Eve. According to the ancient legends, this night was the last chance for witches and their nefarious cohorts to stir up trouble before Spring reawakened the land. They were said to congregate on Brocken, the highest peak in the Harz Mountains - a tradition that comes from Goethe's Faust. In the story, the demon Mephistopheles brings Faust to Brocken to consort with the coven of witches. To ward off the witches' evil, the citizenry would burn bonfires, sprinkle holy water and adorn their homes with talismans of blessed palm leaf. One of the best ways to keep evil at bay, they thought, was through noise. This is an idea that probably dates back to early man. On Walpurgis Night, the citizens would ring bells, bang drums, crack whips and beat blanks of wood onto the ground. 

National Honesty Day: M. Hirsh Goldberg, former press secretary to a governor of Maryland and author of five books, created National Honesty Day in the early 1990s after spending four years researching and writing The Book of Lies (Morrow). This book has been translated into Japanese, Korean and Chinese. Goldberg created this day, because he felt that the month of April, whick begins with a big day of lying (April Fools Day), should end on a higher moral note. 

Feriae Latinae, Feast of the Latin League: {Roman} honors Jupiter Latiaris, and was one of the festivals appropriated from the Latins. It was held at Jupiter's temple on the Alban Mount, and not in Rome itself. During the Feriae Latinae milk and other agricultural foods were offered to Jupiter. A white cow that had never worked was sacrificed and eaten by representatives from all of the cities in the Latin League. This was later expanded to include Consuls and senior Magistrates from Rome. The trees in the area were decorated with human-shaped puppets dangling from the branches. The Feriae Latinae was a one day festival, but if anything went wrong the whole thing had to be repeated until it went perfectly. The feast was followed by two days of public games.

Birthday of Hosea Ballou: {uu} (1771), Deist Universalist who preached that all are Deity's beloved children. [He emphasized reason and spiritual piety, and believed that Deity is eternal unchangeable love.]

National Adopt a Shelter Pet Day
