International Workers' Day, May Day: a celebration of the international labour movement and left-wing movements. It commonly sees organized street demonstrations and marches by working people and their labour unions throughout most of the world. May 1 is a national holiday in more than 80 countries. It is also celebrated unofficially in many other countries.

Loyalty Day: {U.S.} Loyalty Day was first celebrated in the 1920's. Communisim was on the rise, and feared in America. At the time, May Day (May 1st) was percieved by some as a Communist holiday. In a sense, Loyalty Day was intended to counter this. The U.S. Congress made ths an official holiday on July 18, 1958 with the signing of Public Law 85-529. Then President Dwight D. Eisenhower, proclaimed May 1, 1959 the first official observance of Loyalty Day. 

Maia's Feast: {Roman} Maia received the sacrifice of a pregnant cow on this day.

Feast for Lares Praestites: During the Republic the Lares Praestites were honored on this day, especially at their temple along the Via Sacra.

Birthday of Fr. Pierre Teilhard de Chardin: (1881), Catholic mystic and evolutionary who experienced the union of consciousness with all Nature.

Pope John Paul II affirmed that capitalism must be tempered by social justice and restrained by human rights and environmental laws: (1991). [Pope John Paul II rejected communism and totalitarianism, as well as consumerism and unbridled capitalism. He reaffirmed the fundamental rights of workers to their own labor, to dignity in work, to reasonable working conditions, to humane working hours, to a just and living wage, to a family life, to associate with other workers for their collective good, and to participate in a democratic process of governance under the rule of law. He indicated the government has an obligation to seek full employment of all workers through its economic policies, to provide social security for those unable to work, and to provide unemployment insurance and retraining for the unemployed. He also reaffirmed the right to private ownership of property, including technology, but cautioned that the government should not favor the wealthy over the poor. Rather, it is the responsibility of the government to protect all people, but especially the poor and the vulnerable, from exploitation by rich and powerful companies, particularly in times of economic and industrial change. He also indicated that governments should not allow companies, in the name of capitalism, to exploit the natural resources of the Earth irresponsibly and destroy the environment.]

World Naturist Day:

International Chemtrail Awareness Day: Not to be confused with World Chemtrail Awareness Day
