Festival of the Dead or Feast of Ancestors[1] is held by many cultures throughout the world in honor or recognition of deceased members of the community, generally occurring after the harvest in August, September, October, or November. In many cultures a single event, Festival of the Dead, lasting up to 3 days, was held at the end of October and beginning of November; examples include the Peruvians, the Pacific Islanders, the people of the Tonga Islands, the ancient Persians, the ancient Egyptians, the Japanese, ancient Romans, and the northern nations of Europe. For the Hindus the ritual done for the dead ancestors is called Pitru Paksha. It is based on the Hindu lunar calendar and the period lasts for 15 days. The dates change as per the Hindu lunar calendar.[1] In Japanese Buddhist custom the festival honoring the departed (deceased) spirits of one's ancestors is known as Bon Festival. In Inca religion the entire month of November is 'Ayamarca', which translates to Festival of the Dead. A Mexican holiday is called Day of the Dead. The Chinese and Buddhist festival is called Ghost Festival. In the 21st century, European traditions mark the celebrations of Halloween, All Saints and All Souls' Day.


Halloween, All Hallow's Eve: Decorations include jack o'lanterns, costume wearing parties, and candy such as candy corn are also part of the holiday. Kids go trick-or-treating to neighbors who give away candy. Not generally observed by businesses.

Halloween, All Hallows Eve: This festival that modern ppl know as Halloween has a long history that goes back long before Christianity. Around the world this season was almost universally connected with ancestors and the world beyond this world, and the dead. The Norse knew this as Vetrnætr, Winter Nights, a festival dedicated to the elves, the frey, and other ancestral spirits. It was also known as the Festival of the Dead or the Feast of Ancestors throughout the world in honor or recognition of deceased members of the community, generally occurring after the harvest in August, September, October, or November. In many cultures a single event was held at the end of October and beginning of November; examples include the Peruvians, the Pacific Islanders, the people of the Tonga Islands, the ancient Persians, the ancient Egyptians, the Japanese, ancient Romans, and the northern nations of Europe. For the Hindus the ritual done for the dead ancestors is called Pitru Paksha. It is based on the Hindu lunar calendar and the period lasts for 15 days. The dates change as per the Hindu lunar calendar. In Japanese Buddhist custom the festival honoring the departed (deceased) spirits of one's ancestors is known as Bon Festival. In Inca religion the entire month of November is 'Ayamarca', which translates to Festival of the Dead. A Mexican holiday is called Day of the Dead or Día de Muertos. The Chinese and Buddhist have the Ghost Festival. European traditions had a three day festival called Allhallowtide, which was comprised of All Hallows Eve, All Hallow's (All Saints Day), and All Souls' Day. It is said that the spirit world is closest to our world during this late season. But another explanation for the somber death theme is that it was around now after the harvest that ancient ppl in the northern hemisphere knew whether or not they had stored up enough food to survive through the winter.

Winter Nights, Vetrnætr: {Norse} a winter festival that was initially celebrated in pre-Christian Scandinavia. It was said by Snorri Sturluson that Winter Nights is one of the three most important festivals. This festival also marks the end of the summer and start of the winter meaning the end of the harvest work and it was a time to celebrate. 

National Magic Day

Increase Your Psychic Powers Day
